# ChimeyDeluxe is a very flexible compressed DI conditioner.

I've been working on this one for a while. It's done! ChimeyDeluxe is based on the same idea behind PointyDeluxe: more finely grained control over a bank of monster EQ bands, with processing stages between all the EQ stages that make the EQ so intense. None of it is normal but all of it is brutal, and PointyDeluxe found favor with industrial metal heads. To make it sound even slightly nice you have to follow it with either Cabs2, or an impulse response if you favor those, or perhaps the highpass and lowpass in ConsoleX2 or ConsoleH (the latter is still on track to be done before 2026).

Or you can just run it raw and demolish your mix.

I had to completely redesign the compression from ChimeyGuitar and it went through multiple revisions, ending up with 10 bands of EQ and sixteen (!) stages of EQ and compression. For a while there it ran compression from the Pressure algorithm, and then it went back to an upgraded BeziComp. You're met with 10 bands of EQ, labeled like they are in PointyDeluxe (the Slipperman Distorted Guitar nomenclature for frequency ranges) and nothing else. The compression responds to both the largest boost and the deepest cut.

Much like with PointyDeluxe, this plugin does not protect you from yourself. Be gentle, or enjoy intensely gnarly resonant overloads. Why was this so important, if it's just a strange noise maker delivering pungent resonances?

Because my target was to make the ultimate bass DI plugin, that could compress rather than distort, but also fill up the whole mix with dynamic bass intent. It needed to make notes just pop right out of the mix, and by the time I was done with it, it did. You can sculpt the string attack any way you like by how hard you drive it, and zero in on where in the mix you want this energy delivered. It's the perfect Ted Templeman Trick plugin: you can just zero in on a hole in the kick drum EQ and supply not only frequency, but dynamics and bounciness.

It should also work just fine on guitars, keyboards, or whatever. Remember it's trying to deliver amp-like voicings. I got it to make an absolutely brutal close-miked kick sound out of room mics just by obliterating the sound just right. It'll always apply some compression, it's just a matter of how hard you push it with its own EQ on top of that. And again, it doesn't apply bandpassing or speaker emulation at all, so any sound out of ChimeyDeluxe will eat up a lot of mix space unless you do something to stop that.

Or, you can just let it push your mix around and make things huge: up to you!


