# GrooveWear is for scrubbing highs off mechanically like a stylus would.

Here’s something interesting! I revisited some pieces of ToVinyl4, one of ’em being GrooveWear. In fiddling with it, I discovered that I could put in a dedicated wet/dry for just that one part, and if I did, I got perfect high-frequency rolloff at 50%. In other words, as an effect it was working as intended (bit of overshoot available, like the needle was loose in the groove), but I could also redesign it as a tone-softener.

It’s all based on variations of averaging. I’ve got Average to soften just only sample values (it has some interesting quirks but I swear by that algorithm for naturally rolling off highs in a way that doesn’t sound digital). GrooveWear goes one step beyond that, and averages slews (not sample values). That means it’s averaging the rate of change. Then, later, I did Aura, which is averaging the rate of change OF the rate of change… but that’s another story ;)

More importantly, I came up with a nice feature doing the revision. The GrooveWear contained in ToVinyl uses two stages of processing, since it can be a subtle effect. I worked out a convenient way to make the dry/wet control handle multiple stages so, as you increase it, you’re progressively adding stage after stage with the final stage going from dry to wet: it means you can start off with a very mathematically clean amount of effect, just one stage dry/wet, and then keep adding more. And in the spirit of that, I doubled the stages so now GrooveWear has four.

So, you can adjust the intensity control that specifies how much slew averaging the stages are doing (acts like a sort of frequency range control for the effect) or you can adjust the dry/wet to go from pristine to incredibly deep groove wear. It’s partly roll-off of the highs but it’s not JUST normal EQ, texturally it’s quite different because the effect doesn’t try to stop big transients like a square-wave’s sides, it tries to stop smaller-scale detail stuff while retaining the big harmonic content of waves. It’s averaging slew, not deleting it, so certain waveforms get through untouched… you’ll see.

(Followup: this technique of stepping through wet/dry stages was also used for the Z series filters)


