# kRockstar2 is a realistic hall reverb using a new matrix!

kRockstar is no longer the most impressive realistic Airwindows reverb, because everything changed when I discovered the Conference 6x6 matrix.

What that means is, each delay line output no longer feeds the next six delays in line. Instead, each delay feeds only five out of six… but they're always different ones, and more importantly, they're all either unity gain or inverted unity gain. Just like the 4x4 Householder matrix!

Except, with a 4x4 matrix one input sound produces 256 echo returns, before feedback. With a 6x6 matrix, one input sound produces 46,656 echo returns before feedback… NOT counting the 3x3 matrix that handles predelay and placement in the room, So, 1,259,712 distinct echo returns, before feedback.

It sounds lush. The texture is even better than kRockstar (exactly the same reverb algo and delay times, just so you could compare the two techniques!). It's also adding a Distance control, which is FastDistance but split in two, so that one half of it runs inside the undersampling and produces exactly the same tone no matter the sample rate. The other half runs outside the undersampling, specifically to darken exactly the part of the plugin that's meant to be smoother if you're filtering. If you're into dark spaces like your classic Bricasti tones, this control is your friend.

kRockstar2 does not use the subtle tone adjustments I came up with for Ultralight, because I wanted it to match kRockstar closely. Both do have a subtle taste of nonlinearity to them, cleaning up just a tiny bit quicker than expected, blooming with loud sound just a little more to make the point.

As a final touch, kRockstar2 has the same 'alive silence' thing I first added to kCyberCity, and continued in kRockstar, where the air in it breathes with a background space caused by the hall volume being activated by gentle air movement. It's too quiet to hear, but like properly applied dither, it alters the way you hear sounds drop beyond hearing. It's just that dither stops things from dropping into grit.

With kRockstar2, when sounds drop away they drop into a sense of place, that's felt more than heard. Kind of like things in the real world. And again, if you're hearing the reverb washes, that's all fine, but that also means you have it distractingly loud. See how it works when you balance the sense of how big things are, against the other elements in the mix, so that sense of hugeness is simply another presence alongside all the other things you're hearing. The sense of place you get from handling it that way might be just what you needed.

The reverb developments are coming fast, so expect me to beat this pretty soon :)


